My name is Alan Reid and I've been working in the DevOps space for about 12 years now.
Some of the larger companies that I've worked for that you're more likely to be aware of,
Turnitin, which does plagiarism detection on student papers.
NETGEAR, you probably know somebody
who has a NETGEAR switch or router or WiFi access point.
I've also worked for HeartFlow,
which is a smaller company but
interesting because they're in the biomedical imaging space.
They're able to take imagery of the heart and then parse that and create
a colorized model to show obstructions in
the blood vessels that can be a predictor for cardiovascular heart disease,
which is pretty interesting.
Right now, I work for Figure Eight,
which is in the artificial intelligence space.
In the time that I've been working in the industry,
I've really been able to experience the transition from
managing racks of servers to managing servers
inside of environments such as AWS or Azure or what have you, Cloud environments.
It's really been a radical transformation and it's been a fun run.
So my work as I mentioned,
I started out doing more on a combination of the systems side,
but there's always monitoring.
I mean regardless of what you're doing,
monitoring is always a core aspect and
requirement to be able to know the status of something.
In those days, a lot of the monitoring was done with Najos,
which is considerably old and outdated at this point in my opinion.
But nowadays, we've transformed
using more advanced and progressive software like Prometheus.
I mean I've definitely also had to leverage doing
builds with combination of software.
But predominantly, a lot of the places
that I've worked have had Jenkins in some capacity.
It's just like the multi-use tool
of choice for most companies to be able to manage their bills.
It's because of its flexibility and open-ended aspect that
makes it such a requirement to be able to
manage your builds effectively and to collaborate and to reduce
the conflict between people working on developing the same piece of software.
Because one of the biggest time sucks for any large project is how do you collaborate,
how do you resolve problems quickly,
and when you have a shared build system and like multiple people,
not just a single person,
take responsibility for managing,
configuring, setting up, and monitoring this build system,
it makes the whole software life cycle work better.
Then just to touch base real briefly on configuration management,
the industries also had real transformation with configuration management.
When I first encountered configuration management,
I was with CFEngine,
which is one of the granddaddy of configuration management.
But now things have transformed industry wide towards
technologies that make your configuration management more intuitive in ansible.
In my mind, really one of those at the front of the pack,
because it's taken the knowledge that we've learned from using these lower level,
more difficult to use configuration management technologies like
CFEngine and just distilled that and come out with a smarter,
more compact faster product.
A lot of it is just about like time to market.
Because with configuration management,
you can abstract so much of your work and be able to do
complex things and manage hundreds of servers with a team of less than 10 people.
That's phenomenal, that's not something you could have done 10 years ago.
The skills that employers are really looking for is somebody who's
able to come in and be able to do scripting,
do monitoring, do builds, do configuration management,
and these skills are really just fundamental to being able to
help automate and orchestrate virtually any startup in existence.
It's really going to be pretty hard for you to find
a startup that doesn't use all of those technologies.
So this course really leads into the DevOps role of a junior DevOps engineer,
and it also leads into a site reliability role as well.
There's very much complimentary skillset between these two roles.
For the site reliability role,
it's more of an emphasis on monitoring and response to problems and less
on an emphasis on the creation of infrastructure in scripting and management,
but they both have quite a bit overlap in terms of skillsets.
To a lesser degree, that the industry is moving away
from job titles such as a systems engineer,
which I've held at previous companies or systems administrator.
But those are also job titles that would be relevant.
Big skill that they look for is; a,
you need to know how to script and program in the language,
preferably the language they use.
But if not the language they use,
preferably the language that's similar.
The two languages that really spring to my mind is
been the most relevant to many hiring managers,
would be like Python and Ruby.
I feel like they're easy to use and they
make scripting and programming fast and intuitive.
So for the types of things that you're managing as a DevOps engineer,
you want a language which doesn't need to be like super low level,
it needs to get the job done quickly so to speak.